DEV_NOTES.md, before:

# Dev Notes

## 2026-02-10
- Reworked `/home` book filtering from multiple dedicated fields to one free-form search field (`q`) placed between the welcome header and the book list.
- Implemented tokenized smart search: the query is split into words, and each word is matched across title, author name, author surname, month, and year.
- Added pagination for `/home` search results with 10 books per page.
- Added pagination navigation controls (Prev/Next + page numbers) and preserved `q` in pagination links.
- Fixed layout shift while changing pages by reserving vertical scrollbar space with `html { overflow-y: scroll; }`.

## 2026-02-09
- Added reader authentication, registration, and logout flow with role selection and templates.
- Stored the SQLite database under the Flask `instance/` directory and aligned the seeder with this path.
- Updated the Flask-Login user loader to use `db.session.get` to avoid SQLAlchemy 2.0 legacy warnings.
- Added per-book detail pages and linked book titles in yearly and home listings to those pages.
- Restyled templates (login, register, home, book list, and book detail) with centered layouts, card-based sections, and unified form/message styling.


## Testing quick start
- Create and activate a virtual environment:
  - `python -m venv .venv`
  - `source .venv/bin/activate`
- Install dependencies:
  - `python -m pip install -r requirements-dev.txt`
- Run tests:
  - `pytest -q`

Notes:
- `pytest.ini` already points test discovery to `tests/`.
- `tests/conftest.py` creates an isolated sqlite test database and cleans tables before each test.

Commit message:

Use clickable star rating for review form

DEV_NOTES.md, after:

# Dev Notes

## 2026-02-12
- Added review submission support on `book.html`: users can now enter custom review text in a new textarea form shown below the existing reviews.
- Updated `/book/<book_id>` to accept `POST`, save the submitted review to the database for authenticated users, and redirect back to the same page so the new review is visible immediately.
- Added/updated tests for review form validation and for authenticated/guest review submission behavior on the book page.
- Extended the review form to collect `Stars` (1-5) from the user and store that value in the `Review.stars` column instead of using a fixed default.
- Replaced numeric stars input with a clickable star-rating control (★) while keeping stored values in range 1-5.

## 2026-02-10
- Reworked `/home` book filtering from multiple dedicated fields to one free-form search field (`q`) placed between the welcome header and the book list.
- Implemented tokenized smart search: the query is split into words, and each word is matched across title, author name, author surname, month, and year.
- Added pagination for `/home` search results with 10 books per page.
- Added pagination navigation controls (Prev/Next + page numbers) and preserved `q` in pagination links.
- Fixed layout shift while changing pages by reserving vertical scrollbar space with `html { overflow-y: scroll; }`.

## 2026-02-09
- Added reader authentication, registration, and logout flow with role selection and templates.
- Stored the SQLite database under the Flask `instance/` directory and aligned the seeder with this path.
- Updated the Flask-Login user loader to use `db.session.get` to avoid SQLAlchemy 2.0 legacy warnings.
- Added per-book detail pages and linked book titles in yearly and home listings to those pages.
- Restyled templates (login, register, home, book list, and book detail) with centered layouts, card-based sections, and unified form/message styling.


## Testing quick start
- Create and activate a virtual environment:
  - `python -m venv .venv`
  - `source .venv/bin/activate`
- Install dependencies:
  - `python -m pip install -r requirements-dev.txt`
- Run tests:
  - `pytest -q`

Notes:
- `pytest.ini` already points test discovery to `tests/`.
- `tests/conftest.py` creates an isolated sqlite test database and cleans tables before each test.
